 BUTTON
The SpruceSearch 


WHAT TO BUY  HOME DECOR REVIEWS  HOME ACCESSORIES
The 11 Best Indoor Plants of 2022
Low-maintenance houseplants that thrive inside the home
By THERESA HOLLAND Updated on 10/11/21
 Pin
 Share
 Email
Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

Best Indoor Plants
The Spruce / Chloe Jeong
Believe it or not, you can flex your green thumb without stepping foot outside. Many plants not only thrive indoors but can also lend to a natural decorative appeal. A bit of greenery can create an organic aesthetic, liven up your home, and add a pop of color to an otherwise neutral space.

There's a wide range of lovely houseplants that don't require a ton of attention, including shrubs, succulents, cacti, climbers, creepers, and even some small trees.

"My number one tip is to make sure the plant you choose is in a pot with a drainage hole." says Joyce Mast, Plant Mom at Bloomscape. "Most people tend to overwater their plants so with a drainage hole the excess can drain away. If it does not this can lead to root issues and eventual plant decline."

Whether you're interested in a specific size, type, or style—or just want something low-maintenance—we've got you covered. Find the best indoor plant below.

Our Top Picks
Best Low-Maintenance: Costa Farms White Bird of Paradise at Lowe's
The low-maintenance bird of paradise plant only needs to be watered when the soil becomes dry and thrives in well-lit areas.
READ REVIEW
Best Small: The Sill Peperomia Obtusifolia at Wayfair
This petite plant has sturdy spoon-shaped leaves, comes in a little ceramic planter, and only needs water every one to two weeks.
READ REVIEW
Best Medium: The Sill ZZ Plant at Thesill.com
This waxy, green-leafed gem is the perfect medium-sized houseplant and helps purify the air in your home.
READ REVIEW
Best Large: Bloomscape Fiddle Leaf Fig Column at Bloomscape.com
Delivered in an eco-friendly pot made of recycled materials, this dramatic plant arrives at about 42 to 58 inches tall.
READ REVIEW
Best Tree: Just Add Ice Money Tree at Amazon
All this easy-going, affordable tree needs is indirect sunlight and a couple of ice cubes once a week.
READ REVIEW
Best Hanging: The Home Depot Philodendron Brasil at Home Depot
This hardy hanging plant has two-toned leaves, can thrive in low-light areas, and requires minimal care.
READ REVIEW
Best Air-Purifying: Pure Beauty Farms Snake Plant in Grower's Pot at Home Depot
These elegant snake plants don't require very much light or water, making them ideal houseplants.
READ REVIEW
Best Low-Light: American Plant Exchange Cast Iron Plant at Amazon
Able to thrive in low-light conditions, this sturdy plant requires little watering and is about 3 feet tall when delivered.
READ REVIEW
Best Flowering: Costa Farms Spathiphyllum in Grower Pot at Amazon
This 4-foot flowering plant can grow in low-light areas and doesn't require a lot of attention.
READ REVIEW
Best Succulent: Bloomscape Hedgehog Aloe at Bloomscape.com
This small, spikey succulent has bluish-green leaves, requires very little water, and thrives in sunny indoor areas.
READ REVIEW
IN THIS ARTICLE
Our Picks
What to Look for
Why Trust The Spruce
Best Low-Maintenance: Costa Farms 10 in. White Bird of Paradise Planter
White Bird of Paradise
View On Lowe's
View On Home Depot
Native to South Africa, bird of paradise is a low-maintenance perennial plant with a tropical vibe. It thrives in well-lit indoor areas—near a window is best—and needs to be watered once a week (or when the soil gets dry). 

This pre-potted option from Costa Farms comes in a lightweight planter with drainage holes. You can transfer it into another pot or leave it as is.


Best Small: The Sill Peperomia Obtusifolia
Peperomia Obtusifolia
View On Wayfair
Peperomia obtusifolia (AKA baby rubber plant) is known for its sturdy spoon-shaped leaves. Native to Florida, this houseplant has succulent-like qualities, meaning it stores water in its roots, stems, and leaves. This desk-sized option from The Sill comes in a five-inch round ceramic pot and only needs to be watered every week or two.


Best Medium: The Sill ZZ Plant
ZZ Plant
View On Thesill.com
The waxy, green-leafed Zanzibar gem (ZZ plant for short) is the perfect mid-sized houseplant. It helps purify the air, doesn't mind low-light conditions, and only needs water once every few weeks. The Sill's medium ZZ comes in a 7-inch round ceramic planter in black, blush, cream, mint, or classic terracotta.

The 9 Best Wall Planters of 2022

Best Large: Bloomscape Fiddle Leaf Fig Column
Fiddle Leaf Fig Column
View On Bloomscape.com
Want something a bit larger? You might consider a fiddle leaf fig column, like this one from Bloomscape. This sizable indoor plant comes in an eco-friendly pot made of recycled materials and will be between 42 and 58 inches tall when it arrives on your doorstep.

Native to West Africa, fiddle leaf figs need a little more attention than other plants. They prefer warmer temps, do best in rooms with bright natural light, and require frequent watering to keep the soil moist at all times.

The 7 Best Self-Watering Planters of 2022

Best Tree: Just Add Ice JAI266 Money Tree
Money Tree
View On Amazon
View On Home Depot
Easy-going money trees make excellent indoor plants. This affordable pick from Just Add Ice comes in a 5-inch ceramic pot and will be about 15 inches tall when it reaches your doorstep. As the brand's name implies, all you need to do is add two ice cubes to the soil once a week and set it in a brightly lit room.


Best Hanging: The Home Depot Philodendron Brasil Plant in 6 in. Hanging Basket
Philodendron Brasil in Hanging Basket
View On Home Depot
The philodendron brasil can grow in low-light areas and needs to be watered about once a week. This hardy plant from The Home Depot comes in a hanging basket with a removable hook. Hang it from your wall, above a window, or an indoor trellis, and marvel as the two-toned leaves slowly climb down toward the floor.


Best Air-Purifying: Pure Beauty Farms 1.9 Gal. Sansevieria Laurentii Snake Plant in Grower's Pot
Snake Plant in Grower's Pot
View On Home Depot
Snake plants are natural air-purifiers, helping to filter the air you breathe while oxygenating your space.1 Plus, they don't need very much water or light, which is ideal for houseplants. This elegant pre-potted pick from Pure Beauty Farms comes in a 9-inch round pot and will be about 3 feet tall when it arrives at your home.

The 7 Best Air Purifiers of 2022

Best Low-Light: American Plant Exchange Cast Iron Plant
Cast Iron Plant
View On Amazon
View On Americanplantexchange.com
The aspidistra elatior (often called the cast-iron plant or bar-room plant) is an almost indestructible low-maintenance option. It can thrive in heavily shaded areas and requires very little watering—in other words, it's OK if you neglect it a little. This cast-iron plant comes in a 6-inch container and sits about 3 feet tall.

The 5 Best Indoor Planters
Best Flowering: Costa Farms Spathiphyllum Sweet Pablo in 9.25 in. Grower Pot
Spathiphyllum in Grower Pot
View On Amazon
View On Home Depot
Tropical spathiphyllum plants (also known as peace lilies or sweet Pablos) can produce white flowers—even indoors. They tolerate low-light conditions but don't mind brightly lit areas either. And you'll know when to water it, as the leaves will begin to droop. This sweet Pablo is about 4 feet tall and ships straight to your door from Costa Farms.

The 8 Best Fake Plants of 2022
Best Succulent: Bloomscape Hedgehog Aloe
Hedgehog Aloe
View On Bloomscape.com
Native to South Africa, the hedgehog aloe (or spider aloe) is a spiky succulent with bluish-green leaves. While sunny spaces are best, it requires very little water—in fact, less is more—making it an ideal choice for forgetful pet parents. This small hedgehog aloe from Bloomscape is about a foot tall and comes in an eco-friendly planter.

Best Grow Light: Yoyomax Grow Light for Indoor Plants
Grow Light for Indoor Plants
View On Amazon
Some indoor plants can grow in shadowy settings, but for those that need to be placed in indirect sunlight, getting the light just right can be tricky. And that's where a grow light comes in. 

This unit from Yoyomax has three heads, each with a gooseneck arm, and 60 full-spectrum LEDs. The heads can be switched on and off individually as needed and adjusted to one of the six dimmer modes.

The 8 Best Grow Lights of 2022, Tested by Our Experts
What to Look for in an Indoor Plant
Care
It should come as no surprise that all plants need food, water, and light to live, but what may be more surprising is that some need very little care to thrive. Succulents, air plants, and orchids, for example, need watering only a few times per month. Snake plants and ferns can live in very low-light environments, and moss terrariums or jade will do just fine in a drafty room during the winter. 

Sun
While some plants require direct sunlight, others will die if they get too much sun. Avoid putting Philodendren or Peperomia in an overexposed room—the leaves will turn yellow. Put Ficus, aloe, or even a lemon tree in these areas instead. Still other plants—like succulents and spider plants—need a happy medium when it comes to sunlight.

Safety
There are some plants that can be dangerous to kids and pets, especially if ingested.2 Other plants can cause rash or skin irritation simply from touching the leaves or sap. And, surprisingly, these plants don’t always come with a warning, so it’s best to do your own research before buying an indoor plant. Some varieties that parents and pet owners should avoid include Peace Lily, Oleander, Caladium, Poinsettia, and Mistletoe.2

Flowering vs. Non-Flowering
You might be happy to add just a bit of greenery with a non-flowering plant . Especially during the long winter months, however, the bloom of an indoor plant can brighten up your home.

Sustainability
The type of pot the plant comes in can also help you make up your mind as an ecologically minded buyer. Look for a pot made of recycled material.
FAQ
Do indoor planters need drainage holes?
Generally, yes because otherwise the soil can become soggy, which leads to root rot and other diseases and problems. Succulents and cacti are the exception; they are watered infrequently and therefore don’t necessarily need drainage holes, provided they are not overwatered.

How do you hang indoor planters?
You can hang an indoor planter from the ceiling or from a wall. Find the joist or the beam nearest to the location where you would like the planter and screw a sturdy hook screw into the joist. If you cannot find a joist, for hollow walls like drywall or plaster, you can also use a toggle bolt or a toggle anchor. Whichever support system you use, it needs to be strong enough to support the planter weight with the soil and water.

How do indoor planters drain without a drainage hole?
Planters without drain holes don’t drain, therefore it’s important to water the plant sparingly and slowly and not saturate the soil. Many plants however need more water than that. Succulent and cacti work best for planters without drainage holes because they only require little and infrequent watering.

What do you put under plant pots indoors?
To catch the drainage, there are drainage saucers in different sizes and materials, from plain, merely functional plastic drainage saucers to decorative ones. To prevent the saucer from overflowing when water drains out of the planter, the diameter of the saucer should be about the diameter of the pot. Hanging planters are best placed in a double pot.

Why Trust The Spruce?
Theresa Holland has been writing for The Spruce since 2019 and has several years of experience covering gardening products and home goods. She has a ZZ plant, money tree, and snake plant in her home (among others) and has a deep appreciation for indoor foliage. Additional reporting was done by Nadia Hassani, a master gardener with over 20+ years of gardening experience.

UPDATED BY NADIA HASSANI
Article Sources

pothos plants in the kitchen
10 Houseplants That Will Thrive in Your Kitchen
A ZZ plant sits on a college desk, a laptop is open facing the camera.
The 10 Best Plants for a Dorm Room
Best Fake Plants
The 8 Best Fake Plants of 2022
closeup of a dracaena
20 Low-Light Indoor Plants for Your Home
Wall shelves filled with different potted plants and decor
Plant Pros Say These Will Be the 5 'It' Plants of 2021
Wooden wall shelf decorated with houseplants in living room
21 Plants That Can Fit and Grow on a Shelf
Best Plant Delivery Services
Best Plant Delivery Services of 2022
aloe plant on a bedside table
The 10 Best Plants for Your Bedroom
Woman caring for a peace lily
The 5 Best Indoor Planters
zanzibar gem plant
How to Grow ZZ Plant (Zanzibar Gem) Indoors
Succulent Assortment lifestyle
The 9 Best Succulents of 2022
Small dog sitting next to toxic fiddle leaf fig plant
9 Popular Houseplants That Are Toxic to Dogs
pothos on a kitchen table
The Best Houseplant for You, Based on Your Enneagram Type
Brown striped cat sitting in front of a houseplant and cushion
9 Popular Houseplants That Are Toxic to Cats
Tiger aloe plant with blade-shaped variegated leaves in gray pot closeup
How to Grow Tiger Aloe Succulent
Repotting succulent
The 12 Best Plant Starter Kit Essentials of 2022
The Spruce
Get daily tips and tricks for making your best home.
Email Address
Enter your email
SIGN UP
Follow us:
Instagram
TikTok
Pinterest
Facebook
DECOR
GARDEN
HOME IMPROVEMENT
CLEANING
CELEBRATIONS
WHAT TO BUY
NEWS
About Us
Terms Of Use
Editorial Guidelines
Cookies
California Privacy Notice
Advertise
Careers
Privacy Policy
Contact
TRUSTe
The Spruce is part of the Dotdash publishing family.
